Tashalay, warm greetings, friends. Warm greetings. This is a Heart Sutra practice. As we've been
doing, we'll begin with a seven-line prayer, Garubache, followed by prayer, Salamas of the
lineage that's in the PBC daily prayer, Sadhana. I'll go from now, 7.30 to 7.45 to 8.30. Thanks,
everyone. Thank you.
[music]
[silence]
Precious teacher, essence of all the Buddhas of the three times, please consider me.
Please bless me so that my mind will mature and be liberated.
Please bless me so that the extraordinary realization of the profound path will arise in my being.
Please bless me so that I may actualize in this life the supreme path of the clear light, great
perfection.
Precious teacher, essence of all the Buddhas of the three times, please consider me.
Please bless me so that my mind will mature and be liberated.
Please bless me so that the extraordinary realization of the profound path will arise in my being.
Please bless me so that I may actualize in this life the supreme path of the clear light, great
perfection.
Precious teacher, essence of all the Buddhas of the three times, please consider me.
Please bless me so that my mind will mature and be liberated.
Please bless me so that the extraordinary realization of the profound path will arise in my being.
Please bless me so that I may actualize in this life the supreme path of the clear light, great
perfection.
Precious teacher, essence of all the Buddhas of the three times, please consider me.
Please bless me so that my mind will mature and be liberated.
Please bless me so that the extraordinary realization of the profound path will arise in my being.
Please bless me so that I may actualize in this life the supreme path of the clear light, great
perfection.
Please bless me so that the extraordinary realization of the profound path will arise in my being.
Continue on the next page, 49.1, "The Seven Points of Mind Training of Great Master Vimalamitra."
We'll recite each line slowly and then pause for a brief meditation.
All compounded things are impermanent like a water bubble.
(Pause)
All the pleasures of samsara are ultimately suffering.
Though they appear comforting, they are like a ripening, poisonous fruit.
(Pause)
The time will never come when everything is finished the way you want it.
It is like pursuing a mirage for water.
(Pause)
In all their aspects, all the samsaric activities of this life are unreliable. They resemble a
single night's good and bad dreams.
(Pause)
The result of supreme liberation will never revert to suffering like a person who has been cured of
cholera.
(Pause)
The instructions of a qualified lama are the way to climb up to the mansion of liberation. They are
like an excellent staircase.
(Pause)
Thought-free meditation is the basis for all types of samadhi. It is like a well-prepared field.
Now we'll recite the heart sutra. In the extended bodhisattva, it's page 1990. The heart sutra.
(Pause)
Inconceivable, inexpressible, prajna-pairamitta, unborn, unceasing by nature like the sky,
experienced by self-reflexive awarenesses discerning pristine cognition, mother of the victorious
ones of the three times, I make a bayousence to you.
Bhagavati prajna-pairamitta, riddhaya chomdendema, svaramchiparo, two-chimpaining poems.
Amich to the Bhagavati prajna-pairamitta, thus I have heard once the blessed one was dwelling in
Rajagriha at Vulture Peak Mountain, too, through with the great gathering of the Sangha of monks,
and the Gahabodhisattvas at that time.
The blessed one entered the subdhi that examines a dharma's call, profound illumination at the time
.
Noble avallokiteshvara the bodhisattva, asavva contemplating the profound practice of the jamparam
itas, all the five skandhas to be D and nature, then through the power of the Buddha Venerable.
Rivutra said this to Noble Avallokiteshvara the bodhisattva, Mahasattva, how should a son or
daughter of Noble, the tease who wishes to practice the profound Vrajna-ramitatraina, dressed in
this way, Noble Ava.
Nada bodhisattva, Mahasattva replied to Noble Shari putra, O Shari putra, how son or daughter of
Full qualities who wishes to practice the profound Shnaparamitta should regard things in the lowing
way.
The five skandhas should be seen to be completely empty. Nature form is emptiness, emptiness is
form, form is nana, then emptiness, emptiness is nana, other than form in this same feeling,
perception, mental formation and consciousness.
Ramthi the Shari putra, Haraldharma's emptiness they, no characteristics they are unborn and unce
asing neither impure nor from impurity they neither decrease nor increase their Shari putra,
emptiness has no form, no feeling, no birth.
Shin no mental formations, no consciousness, no eye, no ear, no tongue, no body, no mind, no
appearance, no smell, no taste, no touch, no dharma, no wai, element, no dellament and no mind,
consciousness, element, no nur and snow, end of ignorance, no old age, death and no end of old age,
and death like wise there is no.
Purring no origin of suffering, no cessation of, purring no path, no wisdom, no attainment and no,
no attainment therefore Shari putra since 40 suffers have thing to attain they abide in.
Lions upon Prajnaparamita without obscure, shins of mind they have no fear completely transcending,
views a go to the ultimate of nirvana, all the does of the three times by relying on the Shaparam
ita, awaking completely to the picked unsurpassable enlightenment.
And therefore the mantra Prajnaparamita is a mantra of great awareness, it beyond surpass mantra,
the mantra that sees whatever is unequal and the mantra that totally pacifies all sufferings
incident, deceive it should be known as truth.
Prajnamramita mantra is attudasteyattahum gatte gatte paragatte rasam gatte bodhiso ashari putra it
is in this way, bodhisattva mahasattva should train in the profound prajnam.
Paramita then the blessed wanna rose from that samadhi and the noble avallokitesh parada bodhisatt
va, asattva saying good good O sana, both qualities thus it is thus it is exactly as you taught it
one should practice a profound prajnaparamita.
And all the tathagatas will rejoice when the blessed one spoke these words then, bhushari putra and
noble avallokitesh parada, rhisattva mahasattva together with the law assembly and the world with
its gods humans asuras and gun.
And all the tathagatas will rejoice praising what the blessed one had said.
And all the tathahum gatte gatte paragatte parasam gatte bodhiso ashari putra it is thus it is thus
it is thus it is thus it is thus it is therein.
Tathahum gatte gatte paragatte parasam gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte gatte paragatte parasam gat
te bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte gatte paragatte parasam gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte gatte bodhiso
ha, tathahum gatte gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha.
Tathahum gatte gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gat
te bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha.
Katha gatte gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte
bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha.
bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha.
Katha gatte gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte bodhiso ha, tathahum gatte
bodhiso ha.
Continuing where we left off.
Namo amich to the Lama, amich to the Buddha, amich to the Dharma, amich to the Sangha, amich to the
great Mother, Prashna, Paramitta.
May these words of ours come true.
Just as long ago the King of the Gods Indra, by the power and strength of contemplating the
profound meaning of the Prashna, Paramitta,
and reciting its words, was able to avert all demonic forces of negativity and obstacles.
So in the very same way, may we too, through the power and strength of contemplating the profound
meaning of the Prashna, Paramitta,
and reciting its words, all the negative influences, may they be averted, may they be annihilated,
may they be pacified.
Namo amich to the Lama, amich to the Buddha, amich to the Dharma, amich to the Sangha,
amich to the great Mother, Prashna, Paramitta.
May these words of ours come true.
Just as long ago the King of the Gods Indra, by the power and strength of contemplating the
profound meaning of the Prashna, Paramitta,
and reciting its words, was able to avert all demonic forces of negativity and obstacles.
So in the very same way, may we too, through the power and strength of contemplating the profound
meaning of the Prashna, Paramitta,
and reciting its words, all the negative influences, may they be averted, may they be annihilated,
may they be pacified.
Namo amich to the Lama, amich to the Buddha, amich to the Dharma, amich to the Sangha,
amich to the great Mother, Prashna, Paramitta.
May these words of ours come true.
Just as long ago the King of the Gods Indra, by the power and strength of contemplating the
profound meaning of the Prashna, Paramitta,
and reciting its words, was able to avert all demonic forces of negativity and obstacles.
So in the very same way, may we too, through the power and strength of contemplating the profound
meaning of the Prashna, Paramitta,
and reciting its words, all the negative influences, may they be averted, may they be annihilated,
may they be pacified,
may they be completely pacified.
Everything that arises interdependently is unceasing and unborn, neither non-existent nor
everlasting, neither coming nor going,
neither several in meaning nor with a single meaning.
All concepts and duality are pacified. To this teaching, the words of the fully enlightened Buddha,
we pay homage on the path of attaining complete enlightenment.
May all obstacles, both outer and inner, to our attaining complete enlightenment be totally pac
ified.
Brief silent meditation.
[Silence]
Dedication to merit.
Beginning with the additional prayers we've been doing, followed by page 32 in the BBC Daily Prayer
Sadhana.
[Silence]
By this merit, may all obtain omniscience. May it defeat the enemy wrongdoing.
From the stormy waves of birth, old age, sickness, and death, from the ocean of samsara, may I free
all beings.
May the soul source of benefit and happiness, the Buddha's teachings remain for a long time.
And may the victory banner of the lives of the noble ones, the holders of the teachings remain firm
.
May all the temples and monasteries, all the readings and recitations of Dharma flourish.
May the sangha always be in harmony, and may our aspirations be achieved.
The soul remedy for the suffering of sentient beings, the source of every joyous, the teaching.
May it remain honourably upheld and flourish for a long time.
May all the numberless beings who are sick be quickly freed from sickness.
May all the afflictions of sentient beings never again arise.
May all sentient beings always be joyful.
May all births into the lower realms cease forever.
May the wishes of all the bodhisattvas and all the bhoomis swiftly reach fruition.
At this very moment, for the peoples and nations of the earth, may not even the names, disease,
famine, war, and suffering be heard.
But rather, may pure conduct, merit, wealth, and prosperity increase.
And may supreme good fortune and well-being always arise.
The precious bodhicitta in those without it may it be generated.
And those who have it may it never diminish, but always continue increasing.
Throughout the succession of lives into which I shall be born, may I obtain the seven qualities of
the upper realms of existence.
May I meet the Dharma immediately after taking birth and have the freedom to practice accordingly.
May I please the holy lamas and practice Dharma day and night by understanding the Dharma and
practicing its inmost essence.
In that life, may I cross the ocean of samsara.
In samsara, may I expound the excellent holy doctrine.
May I not become bored and tired of accomplishing the benefit of others.
By my own tremendous impartial service to others, may everyone attain Buddhahood together.
May the lotus feet of the guru who glorifies the teachings be firm.
May the noble ones who hold the teachings encompass the earth.
May the prosperity and dominion of the patrons of the teachings increase.
And may the teachings auspiciously remain for a long time.
May the secret treasures of all the victorious ones, their incomparably supreme teachings,
arise as the sun and the sky, gloriously pervading the entire universe.
Nectar essence of all the teachings of the victorious one.
Great charioteer of the secret Vatriyana teachings of the early translation school.
Emanation of nubchen sanjayeshe.
Great tertan sasum lingpa.
May your profound treasure pervade the entire world.
May the soul swift path of all the Buddhas, the supreme vehicle, the great perfection,
unanimously praised by all the victorious ones.
The early translation school tradition of the king of the victorious ones, Padma sambhava.
The conqueror's doctrine pervade auspiciously throughout all directions.
May the great tradition of kempo shankarakshita, lopon, padma, sambhava,
and dharma king, tritsandetsan, increase and spread throughout the three realm world.
May the appearance of the three jewels and the mind streams of beings remain inseparable
and bring sublime well-being throughout the three times.
Deity, mantra, and dharma kaya are the nature of appearance, sound, and awareness.
The pervasive kaya and wisdom display of the Buddhas,
may practitioners of the profound and secret great perfection remain inseparable
from the innermost one-taste awareness of wisdom mind.
[bell]